Every organization, no matter its size, structure,
or sector has a governing body saying what security rules must be followed.
These laws, regulations, standards,
and frameworks provide oversight direction for security programs.
They supply a process for securing an organization's infrastructure.
Many also have very specific rules or controls that must be followed.
Security controls are specific safeguards or countermeasures to avoid,
detect, counteract, or minimize risks to assets.
This topic helps you identify common security regulations and
frameworks that you will see as a cybersecurity professional.
There are a handful of general security standards you need to
know about because you'll have to work with them in the real world.
These cover any size or type of business.
The ISO 27000 Series is a grouping
of international information security management models.
The first document, ISO/IEC 27001,
Information Security Management System Specification,
provides high-level directions on establishing
security programs and assessing their security.
The primary document you'll see in the series though is ISO/IEC 27002,
the 2013, that just means the year in which it was last publish.
This one is the code of practice for information security management,
and it provides direction on 14 security control groups and addresses
35 control objectives with more than 110 individual security rules or controls.
Other ISO documents you may encounter includes ISO/IEC 27005,
which is the Information Security Risk Management Standards.
This explains how to assess and measure security risks.
Another security standards you'll see is from
the National Institute of Standards and Technology,
or NIST Computer Security Resource Center.
Their website is csrc.nist.gov.
I can't encourage you enough to spend time there.
They provide resources including standards, practice guides,
and requirement documents on computers,
cyber, and information security, and privacy.
In particular, the Special Publication or SP 800 series comprises guidelines,
recommendations, technical specifications, and
annual reports of NIST cybersecurity activities.
You'll have an opportunity to review these in the exercise.
There are three industry-specific regulations
you should know as a cybersecurity professional;
HIPAA, PCI DSS, and GDPR.
The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996,
or better known as HIPAA,
security and privacy rules established standards for safe guarding
a patient's medical records and Protected Health Information or PHI.
The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard, PCI DSS,
establishes rules for processing, storing,
transmitting of cardholder data for payment or credit cards.
The European Union's General Data Privacy Regulation, or GDPR,
is the EU's law on data protection and
privacy with potentially extreme consequences if not followed.
Each of these topics could be a lesson in and of themselves.
There are also many other security and privacy regulations.
This is just a taste of the ones you'll see as
a cybersecurity professional and as a consumer.